Dad left us when I was around five years old.
Then when I was 15,
we found out Mum had cancer,
and she passed away six months later.
She was only 39.
My two younger brothers
were still in elementary school,
so I woke up early,
did the milk rounds,
worked in a factory during the day,
and went to school at night.
My life was super busy then.
My life became significantly easier
after marriage.
Since my wife did the housework,
all I needed to do was work.
Before I was so busy
that I never really got to have any fun.
One day, a friend took me to a betting shop
for horse racing,
and to my surprise, I got lucky.
I was surprised that you can buy a ticket
and then you get all this money
in your hands.
So that’s how it started.
It gradually became worse, to the point
that I would get off of the night shift
and go straight to the races.
I loved gambling more
than eating and sleeping.
On my way home,
images of my wife and children
would come to my mind,
and I had this nagging feeling
that I really should
be getting my life together.
When I was broke,
I would go to the pawn shops.
I pawned our camera
and even my wife’s jewelry.
My wife started studying the Bible,
and to try and make my wife and children
a little happy,
I also agreed to a study.
Before I started gambling,
I liked growing vegetables.
You know, everything a vegetable needs,
all the instructions to grow,
is in this tiny seed
that is one or two millimeters in size.
I knew that couldn’t just happen by chance.
I was convinced
that there must be a God.
Through my Bible study,
I learned that this God is Jehovah,
and that made me really happy.
‘I found you!’
That’s how I felt.
However, it was really difficult
to quit gambling.
You know, many times I wanted to quit,
and I would pay back my loans
but then take out some more again.
My wife’s relative said to me,
“Only death can cure you.”
So I had this conviction
that the Creator exists,
yet on the other hand,
I was deep into gambling.
I knew Jehovah saw it all,
and I hated myself.
I attended a circuit assembly
for the first time.
‘Put away the old personality,
and put on the new personality.’
As I was reading those words from the Bible,
I felt that was about me.
When I asked myself, ‘Hey, what’s happening
to my life right now?,’
I saw how horrible and ugly
my mindset was.
I felt tears well up.
I knew this was Jehovah talking to me,
and I felt determined
to do something about it.
I couldn’t do it on my own,
so I prayed to Jehovah
from the bottom of my heart, saying:
“I really want to stop, no matter what.
“I want to hate gambling
and not just avoid it.
Please give me this feeling of hate.”
I prayed like this every day.
Since then,
I have felt zero desire to gamble.
There was one time during work
when I passed by a racetrack.
I loved bicycle racing before,
but now I felt this deep revulsion.
I knew
my prayers were answered.
I felt Jehovah’s patience
and so much appreciation
for
how he allowed me in,
knowing who I was.
If I had continued that path,
I’m sure my family would have broken apart.
My relatives are all surprised at me.
I’m sure those trying to stop gambling
have many concerns,
but as long as you have that desire
to pour out those feelings to Jehovah
and jump into his arms,
he’ll take you in.
He won’t leave you.
I really want them to know Jehovah
as that kind of Person.